# Cancer_Crab_HSI
This Github repository holds the final code, figures, and (eventually) a published manuscript for our project on Jonah crab and Atl. rock crab distributional shifts, habitat suitability, and climate change vulnerability.

Abstract: 

	Jonah crab and Atlantic rock crab are currently assessed by NOAA climate change vulnerability assessments under the moniker Cancer crabs due to a dearth of species specific information across the attributes assessed. These species are frequently by-caught in the American lobster fishery and have low landed volume in comparison to the larger Northeast US commercial fisheries. Here, we interpolated species-specific abundances, bottom temperature and bottom salinity from Northeast Fishery Science Center Bottom Trawl data and calculated species-specific habitat suitability indices from Bottom Trawl data points. We used interpolated surfaces to hindcast (1992-2024) habitat suitability in the five Jonah crab stock units for each species. Then using similar methods habitat suitability was forecasted from bottom temperature and bottom salinity conditions from  (2086-2099 under RCP 8.5 climate conditions)This analysis identified separate seasonal suitability indices for each species with the more nearshore Atlantic rock crab experiencing a large range of temperature and salinity conditions annually while Jonah crab populations experience a narrower range of conditions in deeper water. By identifying these differences, we have supplied new information through Bottom Trawl survey re-analysis that could be used to update climate change vulnerability assessments and determine the long-term viability for either by-catch species as a long-term secondary fishery target. 
